"People are too quick to take action; instead they should stop to think of the possible consequences of what they might do."

In todays, fast paced world, people live by the motto of "fast actions and faster outcomes". We also find the idea of "fail-fast" approach omnipresent. Although these ideas are widespread, and have many a times proved useful, they have their own merits and demerits. On balance, I however want to propound the idea that people should not take any decision in haste and should instead stop to think of the possible consequences of what they might do.

Every action is known to have its effects and outcomes. The time and effort invested in a comprehensive consideration of all consequenses will better equip the person to tackle any hinderances. This process will help shed light on unforseeable circumstances and enable the person to understand what he/she is diving headfirst into. For example, when I dedcide to buy a car, I would benefit from doing a market research to understand the best model available instead of making an impulsive desicion of buying the first car I see, which essentially might not be the best option available. 

Additionally, researches back the findings that better outcomes are a result of a well deliberated decision thus implying that people should pause and think of the consequences before any action. This can further be seen as part of many strategy development and decision making guides and self-help books, podcasts and blogposts as well.Furthermore, delibertaion also helps to understand the flaws that could have been missed on first glance. 

Opponents of this idea would argue that failing fast would showcase the flaws faster and would still be faster than the time spent for careful consdieration of the corner cases to every decision/action. But I would want to rightly point out that this might not always be the case. To exemplify, like in the previous case, if a person invests in the first car they see and later realise that it was not the best suited option, it would result in loss of time, energy and money.

It can't be emphasised enough that actions are irreversible and the only thing that a person is left with apart from a bad outcome is loss of resources and remorse. Hence it is always better that you spend more time contemplating on the probable outcomes instead of working on impulse and living with the guilt for the rest of life.  