"Of the two leading real estate firms in our town, Adams Realty and Fitch Realty, Adams is clearly superior. Adams has 40 real estate agents. In contrast, Fitch has 25, many of whom work only part-time. Moreover, Adams' revenue last year was twice as high as that of Fitch, and included home sales that averaged $168,000, compared to Fitch's $144,000. Homes listed with Adams sell faster as well: ten years ago, I listed my home with Fitch and it took more than four months to sell; last year, when I sold another home, I listed it with Adams, and it took only one month. Thus, if you want to sell your home quickly and at a good price, you should use Adams." 



The author of the argument makes a claim that Adams Realty is a superior real estate firms in comparison to Fitch Realty based on certain personal experiences and data collected. While it may seem as a compelling case, after pondering on it for a while, it can be seen that this claim is rife with holes and assumptions. 
The author cites that Adam clearly has more real estate agents working for them and has twice the revenue as that of Fitch and hence is the superior company. Although this can be one of the metrics to rank companies, it can not be used as an exhaustive list. Sometime a small company can still rise up the ladder with an effective service or product. For example, a smaller company in terms of size, might have less bureaucratic procedures making the process smoother. Also the sales average could not be a direct measure of the number of transactions completed. Maybe Fitch had a higher number of small transactions and Adam had fewer transactions but of high net worth or vice versa. This can not serve as a clear indicator of the superiority.
Furthermore, the author also states his persoanl experience of when he made a property listing with both the companies. He states that when he made a listing with Fitch, it took 4 months to sell the property as compared to a months time in Adams. As convincing as this looks, it should not be believed at face value. The demand for a property listing and the time taken to sell it could depend on various factors like market value, the selling price of the property, the salient features of the property, the amneties provided, the reach of the realty companies in consideration and so on. Hence to make an impulsive decision on the superiority of these companies is not worthwhile. 
In hidsight, it can be observed that there are plenty of factors in play to distinguish the better real estate firm. Thus, the author's claim the Adams is better in comparison to Fitch must not be believed. It will be better that a comprehensive study be undertaken before a conclusion is arrived at. 
